This is your complete tutorial for
creating viral videos for Instagram
reels, YouTube shorts, and Tik Tok. I do
not care what niche you're in or what
platform you are on. There is one truth
about the main algorithm of all of these
major platforms, and it is that the more
you post, the more you grow. As long as
you aren't sacrificing quality and
you're not going to burn yourself out,
increasing your output or the amount of
times that [music] you are posting will
increase the number of followers that
you gain. And so whether you're a solo
entrepreneur who has to wear a dozen
different hats, a small business owner
who hardly has time [music] to make
content, or really anyone who wants to
post more and see better results without
having to spend more time, energy, and
effort, well then I'm so glad you
clicked on this episode because I'm
going to walk you through the five steps
that I use to be able to increase my
output, post more, and create entire
viral videos almost 100% [music] with
artificial intelligence. Step number
one, make a list of five to 10 of your
favorite content creators. These can be
content creators on any platform and in
any niche. These just need to be people
who make really good videos. The kinds
of videos that every time you see them,
they stop your scroll. The kinds of
content that is grabbing your attention
and making you want to buy whatever it
is that they're selling or watch all the
way to the end. Look for people who are
great storytellers. And ideally look for
people who have a similar target
audience to your own. Like I said, they
don't have to be in the exact same niche
as you, but you want there to be some
overlap in their ideal audience. For
example, my average follower and my
target audience on Instagram is a woman
solo entrepreneur over the age of 35
years old. So, if I find a great content
creator who makes super engaging videos,
but he happens to be in the gaming
niche, that probably wouldn't be someone
who I would recommend adding to my own
list because even though it's engaging
content, even though it's captivating
videos that I enjoy watching, I am not
my target audience. And so, I have to
keep in mind his average viewer is
probably a man under the age of 30. And
that doesn't align with my target
audience, who is a female over the age
of 35. If you need help coming up with
this list or you're struggling to figure
out who the target audience is of these
content creators that you love watching,
use Chat GBT. Chat GBT is a great tool
for researching and doing some audience
analysis and some content analysis to
figure out who are these posts meant
for. Then once that's done, I want you
to download the Google Chrome plugin
that's called Sort Feed. Sort Feed will
allow you to pull up someone's Instagram
account and then sort their reels based
off different metrics of your choosing.
For our purposes, we're going to use
sort feed to sort the reels based off of
views for the different content creators
on that list that you just made.
Basically, this will show you the most
viral videos from your favorite content
creators. And I should note that this
plugin is only necessary for Instagram
because Instagram doesn't allow us to
automatically natively sort based off of
views or really sort based off of
anything besides chronological order. If
you go to Tik Tok, if you find some of
these creators on Tik Tok, Tik Tok has a
built-in feature that allows you to sort
based off of latest or most popular. And
the same is true on YouTube. So, if you
find a content creator who you love on
YouTube and you pull up their YouTube
shorts, you can sort by popular rather
than latest, and that will automatically
show you their videos that have the most
views. Then, step number three is to
create an account on the AI tool,
ScreenApp.io.
ScreenApp.io is the best tool that I
found for annotating videos. There are
other AI tools out there that can
automatically transcribe videos, but
Screen App takes it a step further
because it's not just looking at the
spoken text or the words being said in
the content. It's actually analyzing the
video and looking at the cuts, the
duration of the cuts, the visual
elements, what's on the screen, and all
those different elements. Because, as we
know, it's not just the words you say
that cause a video to go viral. It is
all of those other elements baked on top
of the words that you're saying. Once
you're all set up on screenapp.io, IO.
All you're going to do is take one of
the popular videos from the content
creators from that list that we made
earlier and copy the link to one of
their videos. Then you can paste that
link into screenapp.io.
And I want you to copy and paste the
following prompt. And bear with me
because this is going to be a pretty
long prompt. And regardless of where you
are watching or listening, I will put
this in the show notes below today's
episode. But here it goes. Analyze this
video and explain why it has performed
well. Do not summarize the plot or the
closed captions. Identify the specific
elements that boost retention, watch
time, shares, and views. Break down
number one, the hook, the first 3
seconds. What is the hook and why does
it work? What psychological trigger does
it use? Number two, visual techniques.
Notable visuals, camera movement, facial
expressions, text, prompts, transitions,
colors, B-roll, and explain how each
supports retention or clarity. Number
three, audio choices, voice tone,
pacing, music, sound effects. How do
these things boost engagement or
emotion? Number four, pacing and
editing, speed of cuts, pattern
interrupts, zooms, retention spikes, and
how do these things keep people
watching? Number five, emotional
drivers. What emotions are triggered?
Humor, curiosity, relatability, tension,
etc. And how do these things increase
shares or replays? Number six,
rewatchability triggers. Fast visuals,
hidden details, surprises, or anything
that prompts a replay. And number seven,
viral summary. List the top five reasons
this video likely performed well. Make
it direct and actionable. Again, just
copy that prompt and paste it into
screenapp.io. io and then it will give
you a very in-depth analysis of this
video. This analysis that Screen Appio
created is basically instructions. It's
the recipe for a viral video. It's the
prompt that that creator used to create
their viral video. And you could stop
here and just use those instructions to
create your own content in the future.
You could go out and write your own
script and come up with your own content
using that as a baseline or a
springboard to jump off from. Or you
could keep watching today's episode and
I will talk you through how we can use
those instructions, that analysis in
order to have AI literally create the
content for us. But before I do that, I
want to quickly interrupt myself and
tell you about one of my favorite tools
that has AI baked into it. And that's
Highle. Highle is your all-in-one
business backend. I was recently at a
conference and I heard this statistic
that absolutely blew my mind. For every
$1 that content creators spend on email
marketing, they make $42 in return on
investment. And the amazing thing about
Highle is that it's not just for email
marketing. Yes, you can use it to create
a landing page. Yes, you can use it to
collect optins, aka emails, and then
send those emails and schedule your
emails and write your emails, and you
can do that for marketing. You can do
all that on high level. Highle is kind
of like a jack of all trades. And so it
allows you to cancel your 16 other
subscriptions. You no longer need a tool
just for your email marketing and then
another tool for your sales products,
then another tool for your website and
then all these other things. Instead,
you can just have it on high level and
highle grows with you. Because I know
often times when we sign up for these
new tools and we start using, you know,
automations and technology, it can feel
very overwhelming, especially when these
platforms have everything like Highle
does. But the cool thing about Highle is
that it's very much userfriendly. It's
very much a platform that can grow with
you and that can meet you regardless of
whether you're a newbie setting up your
first ever online business or you're
someone who's a pro and you're looking
for a little bit more advanced
automations. Highlevel really has it
all. And my personal favorite thing
about High Level is their amazing
customer support team who is there
literally 24/7 available to not just hop
on a call but hop on a Zoom with you and
walk you through whatever
troubleshooting or tech issues or dream
ideal scenarios you have cooked up. So
if you want to join High Level today,
you can do so no commitment. Cancel
anytime and you can try it for 30 days
for free at the link down in the show
notes below. But let's get back to
talking about creating viral content
using AI. Once we have this analysis
created by Screen Appilio, we're going
to copy the entire analysis and bring it
back into chat GPT. And I want you to
use the following prompt within chat
GPT. It's another long one, so buckle
up. I'm going to give you a detailed
analysis of an Instagram reel. Or if
it's a YouTube short, say YouTube short.
Tik Tok, say Tik Tok. Use the analysis
to create a brand new real outline for
me designed for my niche of blank. And
then tell chatbt whatever your niche is.
Replicate the style elements, pacing,
structure, and retention tactics of the
analyzed reel, but not the topic. Apply
those stylistic elements to a completely
new idea that fits within my niche.
Please include a hook with exact text on
screen, shotby-shot outline including
camera angles, pacing, and visuals,
on-screen text outline, voice over
script in my tone, and a note on why the
original reels elements increase
retention and how you applied each of
those elements. Here, here is the
analysis. And then you can paste in the
analysis that was created by screen
app.io. Once you hit enter, chatbt will
create a very robust outline for your
short form video content. From there,
you could go out in the field and shoot
it and film it yourself, or you could
take it into our fifth and final step
and our last AI tool for creating viral
content, and that is Nvido. Nvidia is a
tool that will create entire short form
videos from text. It can use Sora to
create AI generated videos. It can
source royalty-free B-roll from around
the internet, or you can even insert
your own B-roll clips. Additionally,
Nvidia can create the entire voice over
for the video using one of their
built-in AI narrators, or it can even
clone your own voice so that the
narration and voiceover sounds like it
was spoken by you. And it does all of
this with text prompts. So, essentially,
we are going to take the output that
chat GPT created, and we are going to
give that to Invido. Now, when you hit
enter, you might see a little tiny
warning at the very bottom of Nvidia
saying, "Nvido makes mistakes, and it
does, just like any AI tool. It's not
perfect. It might need a lot of
prompting and refining to create a nice
finished final product." I personally
think one area where Nvidia isn't the
best. It's pretty good, but it's not the
best, is in the actual text to speech.
Like, the voiceovers and narrations that
Nvidia creates aren't always super
seamless. They don't always sound like
natural human speech. So, as an
alternative tool, you could use Invido
to create the video components of your
short form video, and you could use 11
Labs for your TTS, your text to speech,
because 11 Labs is much better when it
comes to voiceovers. Now, remember, one
of the premises of today's episode was
being able to create more content with
less time, energy, and effort. And what
I just described to you is something
that's probably going to take you a
while. And that is true. The very first
time you do it, it's going to take you a
while. There's going to be some trial
and error. There's going to be some
mistakes made. But number one, it will
get a lot faster with time. And number
two, you don't need to do steps one
through five every single time. Now that
you've done this once, you could
theoretically jump straight to step
number four. Since you already have a
video analyzed by Screen App.io, you
already have the elements of a viral
short form video. You could just have
chat GBT create different versions,
different varieties, different scripts
based off different niches or different
topics and then plug all of those into
inv video or 11 Labs to generate
different short form content. And of
course, like I mentioned earlier, you
can stop at any point in the process.
You could use AI like I described today
to create everything from A to Z, from
idea to script to outline to final
product. Or you could stop halfway
through and just use the analysis of
your favorite content creators viral
video and use that to create your own
from your own human imagination pen to
paper old school style. I do want to ask
you this though. If you learned anything
today, if you found this valuable at
all, hit that thumbs up button and make
sure that you're subscribed as well
because I've said this before and I'll
say it again. Over 80% of our weekly
viewers are not subscribed to the
channel. So, you're coming back every
week to watch these episodes, but you're
not subscribed. So, if you did find
today valuable, hit that thumbs up and
then hit that subscribe button so you
can get all of my future episodes
automatically showing up in your YouTube
app. Thank you so much for listening
today and as always happy networking.